Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a drama and sci-fi
film called "Only."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A young couple named Will and Eva decides
to subject themselves to a strict set of safety
protocols after a comet released ashes that
caused the spread of a mysterious disease
across the world.
The stress brought on by the isolation and
preventive measures has not been easy for
the couple.
To top it off, Draconian mandates from the
government have left them no choice but to
hide, not just from the authorities but also
from their neighbors.
On Day 400 of the pandemic, Eva uses a test
kit to find out if she is infected.
But while they are waiting for the results,
they hear the authorities knocking at the
door, so Eva runs to her room and hides in
a compartment under the bed.
When Will answers the door, military personnel
immediately enter their apartment to inspect
the rooms.
The Sargeant looks at Will's I.D. and points
out that he isn't mentioned in the apartment's
lease records.
Will tells them that the place belonged to
his girlfriend, Carolyn Hartley, but she had
already died from the virus.
The Sargeant takes another look at his records
and asks Will about Eva Balsora, who was also
listed on the lease.
Will tells them that Eva went back to England
to visit her parents when the pandemic hit,
and he never heard from her again.
As The Sargeant looks around the apartment,
he interrogates Will about all the plastic
covering the furniture.
Will tells them that it was part of the quarantine
measures to keep his girlfriend safe, but
it didn't work because she still succumbed
to the disease.
When the man inquires about the test kit,
Will explains that he tested himself because
he could be carrying the virus unknowingly.
One of the soldiers calls the attention of
the Sargeant after finding a room with numerous
pictures of women on the wall.
Most of them hold papers with dates on them,
but others have written dates directly on
their skin.
Will discloses that these were women that
he once knew.
The Sargeant finally tells his men to move
out of the apartment after finding nothing
suspicious inside.
On the way out, the Sargeant tells Will that
he's impressed that they've managed to survive
the pandemic for so long.
He assures Will there's no cause for worry
because he has no intention of taking the
infected individual living with him.
When Will asks him what he meant, the Sargeant
points to the vial of the test kit on the
kitchen table.
The Sargeant hints that he knows what the
government does with the people they take
with them.
Before leaving the apartment, he tells Will
to enjoy the last few moments he has with
her.
While Will broods over the result of the test,
Eva tells him to start packing, so they could
leave.
While they drive on the streets, an emergency
announcement notifies the area's residents
that a curfew is in effect.
The announcer tells the residents to avoid
exposure to the ash and report any sighting
of females to the authorities.
They stop by a store to buy some groceries,
but Will tells Eva to stay close to him and
keep quiet before getting out.
Inside the store, most of the shelves are
almost empty save for the feminine hygiene
section, where the products are offered free
of charge.
While Eva inspects a tampon, a store employee
grabs her bonnet from behind, exposing her
long hair.
Will hears the commotion, so he points a gun
at the startled employee, telling him to lie
on the ground.
After being convinced that no one else is
in the store, Will leaves the man $40 to pay
for the groceries and tells him to stay down
until he finishes counting down from 500.
Several weeks before the disease emerged,
Eva had asked Will if they could go on a trip.
Eva says she wants to go to a waterfall because
she hasn't been to one in years.
After breakfast, Eva and Will start reminiscing
about their last road trip, but their serene
moment is suddenly interrupted by a bird hitting
their window.
When they look outside, they notice the ashes
falling from the sky.
As they continue to stare outside the window,
their roommate Carolyn enters the apartment
and collapses on the floor.
Back on the road, Will and Eva stop by the
motel to stay the night.
In the morning, Eva tapes a girdle around
her chest to conceal her breasts.
She notices some dust on the edge of the sink
and rubs it on her cheeks to give her a scruffy
look.
She smiles as she continues applying the dust
to her face.
Later on, Will and Eva stop by a diner for
food, but Will is worried that it might be
too risky for both of them to go inside.
However, Eva hints that she doesn't want to
eat her last cooked meal on the road.
Inside the diner, Will orders the food as
Eva refrains from speaking to anyone.
While they wait for their meal, a news anchor
reveals that the Embryo Project was able to
grow a fetus inside an artificial womb up
to the second trimester.
The authorities look at the promising experiment
as a possible way to repopulate the Earth
once they find a cure for the virus known
as H.N.V. 21.
As other men arrive at the diner, the news
reveals that the reward for reporting a living
woman to the authorities has been increased
from one million to two million dollars.
Will and Eva start to feel uneasy as the other
men discuss the reward.
When the waiter approaches their table, Will
orders two pie slices to go and asks for the
check.
While preparing to leave, Will notices blood
dripping from Eva's ear.
Will tries to wipe off the blood from Eva's
face, but he knocks over a coffee mug, calling
other people's attention.
Will and Eva try to avoid the gaze of other
customers as they rush out of the restaurant
without paying for their food.
When the waiter tries to come after them,
a man offers to pay their bill as he watches
them drive away.
The man, named Arthur, tells his stepson,
Casey, to finish his meal and prepare to leave.
Will and Eva soon arrive at the entrance to
a forest leading to a waterfall.
Will tries to convey his concerns about Eva's
health, but she urges him to enjoy their trip.
In the past, When Will and Eva took Carolyne
to the hospital, Will noticed that the nurses
and doctors seemed to be on edge.
As more people arrive, he realized that all
the patients were women.
Will tells Eva that they'll have to leave,
but Eva insists on staying behind to find
out what's wrong with Carolyne.
Will only manages to convince her to leave
when he tells her that only women are getting
sick.
On their way out of the hospital, Will decides
to stop by a restricted area to grab two hazmat
suits.
When they get home, Eva receives a call from
her Dad, Peter, who advises them to quarantine.
Peter gives them instructions on how to disinfect
their apartment.
First, Will covers the doors and furniture
with plastic.
Then they apply bleach on the floor and spray
disinfectant into the air.
Back in the present, while taking a break
from their journey to the waterfall, Will
sees Eva taking photos, so he asks her why
she's still doing it when no one would see
the images.
Eva suggests that other women might still
be out there, noting that she's not that special.
In another flashback and on the second day
of the ash fall, Will had incorporated the
quarantine protocols into their morning routine.
Will says they need to start boiling the water
because the virus has entered the water supply.
Will had installed U.V. lights all over the
apartment because they can kill pathogens
and germs within two feet.
They will be eating canned food for a while,
but Will assures Eva that the quarantine will
be over soon.
When Eva hears her phone buzzing, Will advises
her not to take it out of the bag when she
answers the call.
On the news, they hear that thousands of women
have died from H.N.V. 21, and millions more
are infected.
At least a dozen males have been found with
the virus, but none have exhibited any symptoms.
By Day 44, Eva has started to become weary
from eating ravioli all the time.
The couple tries to keep themselves physically
close by caressing each other while wearing
gloves.
As the days go by, Will builds a compartment
that they can place under the bed so Eva can
hide in case of emergencies.
By that time, the government has begun to
hold women in captivity.
The news shows that the women appear to be
happy as the President pays them a visit,
but articles on the internet claim that the
government has been conducting horrific experiments
on women.
Since Eva is not allowed to go out, she settles
for taking pictures by the window.
Will, however, warns her that it's still not
safe, so he asks her to give him the camera.
Eva is slowly becoming more irritable during
her isolation, as she feels constricted by
the protocols and the smell of the Lysol all
over the house.
While browsing the internet, Eva comes across
a chatroom for women who managed to avoid
getting infected.
The group called "She Will Survive," has 131
participants when she joined.
Meanwhile, Will is becoming more protective
of Eva as more women die from the disease.
As Eva searches for her phone, Will tells
her that he has hidden it for fear that she
might be sending critical information to strangers.
Eva is shocked to learn that Will went through
her phone without her knowledge.
Eva confesses to the women in the S.W.S. chatroom
that she's starting to feel helpless because
of the quarantine protocols.
On the other hand, Will is often displeased
with Eva every time she fails to follow the
preventive measures.
Soon, they hear from the news that 10 million
women have already died from H.N.V. 21.
The number of participants in the S.W.S chatroom
has been reduced to 89, with some members
noticing that fewer people are logging on
each day.
Eva tells the women in the chatroom not to
lose hope because other survivors are still
probably out there.
She then points out that her mother is still
safe in England.
Will and Eva continue to argue about the quarantine
rules as the disease continues to wreak havoc
worldwide.
Meanwhile, the number of participants in the
S.W.S chatroom has continued to dwindle.
When Eva goes online, she finds that there
are only 14 women in the group.
Back in the forest, Will and Eva practice
shooting a can after setting up camp.
Will misses the target, so he asks Eva to
try it.
Eva hits the can on her first shot, so Will
asks her to try again.
Meanwhile, Arthur and Casey have found Will's
car at the forest entrance, and Arthur punctures
a tire on Will's vehicle before going after
them.
After shooting, Eva and Will relax in the
tent and get intimate, but their lovemaking
is soon cut off when Eva's body starts to
tremble.
On Day 238 of the pandemic, Will decides to
buy the gun.
When he entered the store, the clerk told
him that he's a little late because most of
his merchandise has already been sold.
The man offers Will a rifle and suggests that
it will be suitable for hunting women because
it's not lethal.
Will says he only wants something he could
use for self-defense.
Will gets home carrying a handgun with him
as he disinfects himself before entering the
living room.
Will also brings home a test kit and tells
Eva that he wants to use it to find out if
he's a carrier.
Will says that he is also tired of the quarantine,
and he is hoping that he'd be able to touch
Eva again if he's clear.
He rubs the swab into his mouth and puts the
sample into the vial.
They watch the vial for a while, waiting to
see if it changes color.
Soon, they see the vial turning indigo, which
indicates that Will is infected.
Will is distraught to learn that he's a carrier,
but he tells Eva not to worry because she's
still safe.
Back in the woods, Eva gets out of the tent
in the morning to take a walk while Will is
still asleep.
When Will wakes up, he calls for Eva, but
when he gets out of the tent, Casey and Arthur
greet him by pointing a rifle at him.
Arthur tells him to get out of the tent and
asks him where Eva is.
He starts yelling, telling her not to come
back to their camp.
Eva hears his voice and sneaks back to their
camp.
Upon reaching the area, she sees Arthur tying
Will to a tree.
Arthur tells Casey to check the trail while
he looks for Eva near the river.
Arthur soon sees Eva running, so he chases
after her.
She manages to evade Arthur by hiding between
two huge rocks.
While Arthur looks for her, she suddenly palpitates.
Fortunately, Arthur gives up and decides to
wait for her at the camp.
That night, Arthur asks Will how he managed
to keep Eva safe for so long.
Arthur tells him that he tried sealing and
sterilizing their basement to keep his wife
safe, but she died after a few weeks.
Arthur assures Will that he's not a monster.
He only wants to repopulate the Earth so that
his son can raise his own family someday.
Will reminds Arthur that Eva is already sick
to be of any use to him.
Arthur tells him that they need to find her
soon because her eggs only last around six
hours after death.
Will asks Arthur if he would've turned his
wife over to the authorities.
He says he wouldn't have, but his wife, Cathy,
would've gladly turned herself in if it would
help.
When an alarm starts beeping, Arthur wakes
up Casey and tells him that it's his turn
to watch over Will.
By Day 374 of the pandemic, only Eva and another
woman with the username Hope365 are online
in the S.W.S. chatroom.
Hope tells her that another survivor has been
raided the previous night.
Hope says that she went online to say goodbye
to Eva because she has already started feeling
the symptoms.
Eva tells her that it could be anything, but
she says that she had taken the test.
Hope sends Eva a photo of herself holding
a paper with the date "March 23."
Eva prints the image and sticks it to the
wall in her room, where other pictures of
the women from S.W.S. are displayed.
In the forest, Will wakes up at night and
sees Eva walking toward them.
Eva walks toward Casey without her clothes
on as he stares at her in awe.
When she gets close, she strokes Casey's face
gently and suddenly hits him in the head with
a rock, knocking him unconscious.
Eva unties Will, but as they prepare to leave,
they hear Arthur calling out to Casey.
As Will points the rifle towards the tent,
Arthur shoots from the inside, causing Will
to fire back.
Will is hit in the leg, but he still manages
to get away with Eva.
Arthur remains in the tent as he cries out
in pain, indicating that he has also been
hit.
On Day 400, Eva receives a call from her Dad,
but Will tells her that they should contact
him via a secure VPN instead of calling him
back.
Eva tells Will that maybe it was an emergency
because Peter wasn't supposed to use the phone
under normal circumstances.
Will decides to dial the phone, but he tells
Eva not to say anything.
Peter, who has bruises on his face, answers
the phone and tells Eva that he wants to know
if she's okay.
He informs Eva that his mother has been taken.
He had thought that his wife would be safe
because of her age, but people still took
her.
Peter cries as he begs Eva to say something.
Unable to hold back her longing to communicate
with her father, Eva calls out to Peter, saying
she's okay.
Will quickly takes away the phone, arguing
that she cannot talk on an unsecured line.
Eva begs him to give back the phone, but Will
doesn't relent.
He warns her that people will arrive in 15
minutes to take her away if she speaks on
an unsecured line.
Eva lashes out at Will, telling him that her
home has become a prison because of his quarantine
rules.
Will assures Eva that they will survive the
pandemic, but he tells her that she should
realize that this would be her life now.
Eva becomes even more frustrated, so she grabs
the gun from the table.
She then asks Will to leave while pointing
the firearm at him.
Will tries to reason with her, but she reiterates
her demand, so he walks out of the apartment.
On his way out, Will sees the ashes falling,
so he heads back inside.
Meanwhile, Eva is already on her way to the
rooftop wearing her hazmat suit.
When Will gets back inside the apartment,
he notices that Eva is not around, so he goes
to the rooftop to find her.
When Eva reaches the rooftop, she walks close
to the edge of the building and watches the
ashes fall from the sky.
Will soon reaches the rooftop and runs toward
Eva, but he is disheartened and crushed when
he sees her removing her hazmat suit.
Eva and Will walk slowly on their way to the
waterfall in the forest due to Will's limp
from the gunshot.
Upon reaching the breathtaking site, Will
plants a kiss on Eva's lips and embraces her,
knowing that she won't be around for much
longer.
Later on, Eva takes out her camera and gives
it to Will.
He takes a selfie with Eva, showing the date
written on the back of her hand.